<h2 align="center"> Preface </h2>

What is python and why python ?

Python is a widely used general-purpose, high level programming language. It was initially designed by Guido van Rossum in 1991 and developed by Python Software Foundation. It was mainly developed for emphasis on code readability, and its syntax allows programmers to express concepts in fewer lines of code.

Why Python?
1) Readable and Maintainable Code
While writing a software application, you must focus on the quality of its source code to simplify maintenance and updates. The syntax rules of Python allow you to express concepts without writing additional code. At the same time, Python, unlike other programming languages, emphasizes on code readability, and allows you to use English keywords instead of punctuations. Hence, you can use Python to build custom applications without writing additional code. The readable and clean code base will help you to maintain and update the software without putting extra time and effort.
2) Multiple Programming Paradigms
Like other modern programming languages, Python also supports several programming paradigm. It supports object oriented and structured programming fully. Also, its language features support various concepts in functional and aspect-oriented programming. At the same time, Python also features a dynamic type system and automatic memory management. The programming paradigms and language features help you to use Python for developing large and complex software applications.
3) Compatible with Major Platforms and Systems
At present, Python is supports many operating systems. You can even use Python interpreters to run the code on specific platforms and tools. Also, Python is an interpreted programming language. It allows you to you to run the same code on multiple platforms without recompilation. Hence, you are not required to recompile the code after making any alteration. You can run the modified application code without recompiling and check the impact of changes made to the code immediately. The feature makes it easier for you to make changes to the code without increasing development time.
4) Robust Standard Library
Its large and robust standard library makes Python score over other programming languages. The standard library allows you to choose from a wide range of modules according to your precise needs. Each module further enables you to add functionality to the Python application without writing additional code. For instance, while writing a web application in Python, you can use specific modules to implement web services, perform string operations, manage operating system interface or work with internet protocols. You can even gather information about various modules by browsing through the Python Standard Library documentation.
5) Many Open Source Frameworks and Tools
As an open source programming language, Python helps you to curtail software development cost significantly. You can even use several open source Python frameworks, libraries and development tools to curtail development time without increasing development cost. You even have option to choose from a wide range of open source Python frameworks and development tools according to your precise needs. For instance, you can simplify and speedup web application development by using robust Python web frameworks like Django, Flask, Pyramid, Bottle and Cherrypy. Likewise, you can accelerate desktop GUI application development using Python GUI frameworks and toolkits like PyQT, PyJs, PyGUI, Kivy, PyGTK and WxPython.
6) Simplify Complex Software Development
Python is a general purpose programming language. Hence, you can use the programming language for developing both desktop and web applications. Also, you can use Python for developing complex scientific and numeric applications. Python is designed with features to facilitate data analysis and visualization. You can take advantage of the data analysis features of Python to create custom big data solutions without putting extra time and effort. At the same time, the data visualization libraries and APIs provided by Python help you to visualize and present data in a more appealing and effective way. Many Python developers even use Python to accomplish artificial intelligence (AI) and natural language processing tasks.
7) Adopt Test Driven Development
You can use Python to create prototype of the software application rapidly. Also, you can build the software application directly from the prototype simply by refactoring the Python code. Python even makes it easier for you to perform coding and testing simultaneously by adopting test driven development (TDD) approach. You can easily write the required tests before writing code and use the tests to assess the application code continuously. The tests can also be used for checking if the application meets predefined requirements based on its source code.
However, Python, like other programming languages, has its own shortcomings. It lacks some of the built-in features provided by other modern programming language. Hence, you have to use Python libraries, modules, and frameworks to accelerate custom software development. Also, several studies have shown that Python is slower than several widely used programming languages including Java and C++. You have to speed up the Python application by making changes to the application code or using custom runtime. But you can always use Python to speed up software development and simplify software maintenance.
